READ ME

I would like to provide a few notes about the ERD I carried out as follows:

1. Relation between Tables "employees" and "dept_emp"

   An employee could have worked in more than one department during his/her tenure with the company.
   This is also evident from the fact that the table "dept_emp" has 331603 Rows (331604 - Header Row = 331603)
   whereas, "employees" has 300024 Rows (300025 - Header Row = 300024). This tells us that some employees are
   listed more than once in "dept_emp" which is how the real world operates.
   
   Therefore, one employee (from "employees" Table) could have been more than one department employee; therefore,
   the relation between the tables "employee" and "dept_emp" would be one-to-many.
   
   On the other hand, any department employee from the table "dept_emp", irrespective of how many time he/she is listed
   in the "dept_emp" Table, can have only one emp_no in the "employees" Table. Thus the relation between "dept_emp" and
   "employees" Table is many-to-one.
   
2. Relation between Tables "employees" and "dept_manager"

   Just as described above, one employee could have been a manager of more than one department. Whereas, any department
   manager is still one unique employee. Thus, the relation between "employees" and "dept_manager" is one-to-many and the
   relation between "dept_manager" is many-to-one.
   
3. Relation between Tables "employees" and "titles"

   One employee could have held more than one title during his/her tenure. Similarly one title could be given to more
   than one employee. Thus, the relation between "employees" and "titles" Tables is one-to-many and the reverse relation 
   between "titles" and "employees" Tables is also one-to-many; thus the overall relation between the two tables is many-to-many.
   
4. Relation between Tables "employees" and "salaries"

   Technically, because an employee could have had more than one position and therefore more than one salary which is
   distinguished in the "salaries" Table by having the "from_date" and "to_date" fields, theoretically the relation
   between "employees" and "salaries" Tables should be one-to-many. Similarly, the same salary should theoretically be
   associated with more than one employee thus making the relation between "salaries" and "employees" also one-to-many.
   Therefore, the overall relation should be many-to-many.
   
   HOWEVER, the Tables have the same number of rows and must represent current situation. One employee can have only one
   salary; therefore, the relation between "employees" and "salaries" is one-to-one. On the other hand, the same salary
   could be given to more than one employee and the relation between "salaries" to "employees" would be one-to-many.
   
5. Relation between Tables "departments" and "dept_emp"

   dept_no is the Primary Key in the "departments" Table. The field "dept_no" in the "dept_emp" refers back to dept_no column
   in the departments Table and this is how we can get the department information for an employee. Thus, in "dept_emp" dept_no
   is a Foreign Key referring back to departments Table. One dept_emp could have been associated with more than one department
   based on his/her tenure; thus making the relation one-to-many. 
   
6. Relation between Tables "department" and "dept_manager"

   dept_no is the Primary Key in the "departments" Table. The field "dept_no" in the "dept_manager" refers back to dept_no column
   in the departments Table and this is how we can get the department information for a department manager. One dept_manager could 
   have been associated with more than one department based on his/her tenure; thus making the relation one-to-many.
   
   
